# FSS17_GRP_N
## HW3 - Discretization

### Description
`Unsupervised Discretization`: Code that takes a table column of N numbers, sorts in, and breaks into bins of size approximately sqrt(N).   
Note that these breaks satisfy the following sanity rules:  
- no range contains too few numbers (sqrt(N));  
- each range is different to the next one by some epsilon value (0.2 * standard deviation of that column);
- the span of the range (hi - lo) is greater than that epsilon;  
- the lo value of one range is greater than than the hi value of the previous range  
`Supervised Discretization`: Code that reflects over the ranges found by the unsupervised discretizer.  
Combine ranges where some dependent variable is not changed across that combination of ranges. Specifically, sort the ranges and do a recursive descent of the ranges. At each level of the recursion, break the ranges at the point that most minimizes the expected value of the standard deviation of the dependent variable.

### Files
`c.py` - python code for HW3   
`output.txt` - Table generated by the code in b.py sorted by domination rank  

### Dependencies
`Python 2.7`

### Building
`python c.py <inputfile> <column index> [small value]`  
For example `python c.py auto.csv 1 .1`  
NOTE:
Column index starts from 0 and indicates which column the discretisation should be done on. 
The last argument is optional and is the 'cohen' i.e. the multiplier for standard deviation in calculating epsilon.

The following output looks at the second column - displacement - in auto.csv. The 'median' is the median of the domination ranks of the corresponding bins. The cohen used is the default value of 0.2.
`python c.py auto.csv 1`

### Sample Output
We have many unsupervised ranges.  
bin size (i.e. sqrt(n)): 19  
epsilon: 10.4644003909  
x     1 { span =  115.0 , lo=  68.0  n=  222  hi=  183.0 } median:  280.5  
x     2 { span =  34.0 , lo=  198.0  n=  44  hi=  232.0 } median:  156.0  
x     3 { span =  17.0 , lo=  250.0  n=  28  hi=  267.0 } median:  120.0  
x     4 { span =  16.0 , lo=  302.0  n=  42  hi=  318.0 } median:  70.5  
x     5 { span =  20.0 , lo=  340.0  n=  31  hi=  360.0 } median:  36.0  
x     6 { span =  46.0 , lo=  383.0  n=  19  hi=  429.0 } median:  18.0  
x     7 { span =  15.0 , lo=  440.0  n=  6  hi=  455.0 } median:  6.5  
We have fewer supervised ranges :)  
super     1   {label=  1 , most=  183.0 }  
super     2   {label=  2 , most=  232.0 }  
super     3   {label=  3 , most=  267.0 }  
super     4   {label=  4 , most=  318.0 }  
super     5   {label=  5 , most=  429.0 }  
super     6   {label=  6 , most=  455.0 }  
 

### Contributors
Aswin Anil Kumar,  
Seyedsamim Mirhosseini Ghamsari,  
Sreeram Veluthakkal
